[docu-2752] Adding DP nodes in the event of an unreachable CP (#5053)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/_src/gateway/kong-enterprise/cp-outage-handling-faq.md

* The new data plane node determines that the control plane is unreachable. 
* The new data plane node reads the configuration file from the S3 compatible storage volume, configures itself, caches the fetched configuration file, and begins proxying requests.
* The new data plane node continuously tries to establish a connection with the control plane. 

The S3 compatible storage volume is only accessed at data plane node creation time. The configuration will never be pulled from the storage after creation. If the new data plane node depends on any other functionality from the control plane, it will fail. 

## Security considerations

Storage volume write access is only granted to the backup node.
It is your responsibility to apply any encryption modules your storage provider recommends to encrypt the configuration in the storage volume. 

## Who should use this mode?

This mode should be used only for situations that require adherence to strict high-availability SLA's. For most cases this is not necessary. 

### {{site.base_gateway}} configuration parameters

Data plane resilience is managed in the `kong.conf` configuration file by the following parameters: 

```

> cluster_fallback_config: on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cluster_fallback_config_import: on
```

cluster_fallback_config_storage: $AWS_STORAGE_ENDPOINT

> cluster_fallback_config_exporter = off

Reviewer 2: This should be `cluster_fallback_config_export` without `er`

---
title: Control Plane Outage Management FAQ
badge: enterprise
content_type: Reference
---

Starting in {{site.base_gateway}} version 3.2, {{site.base_gateway}} can be configured to support configuring new data planes in the event of a control plane outage. This document serves as an informational set of guidelines for that feature. For instructions on setting this up, read the [data plane resilience documentation](/gateway/latest/kong-enterprise/cp-outage-handling) doc.

## How it works

When the cluster adds new data plane nodes, the control plane uses a configuration file to provision those nodes. If the control plane experiences an outage, the data plane is unable to be provisioned, and will silently fail until they can establish a connection with the control plane. After configuring {{site.base_gateway}} to manage the addition of new data plane nodes in the event of a control plane outage new nodes will no longer silently fail after not being able to establish a connection with the control plane and are configured by reading the configuration file that is located in the designated S3 compatible storage volume. 

> By designating a dedicated backup node, any changes to the configuration file are pushed to the S3 compatible storage. Any new data plane nodes read the configuration file from the S3 compatible storage volume and consume the new configuration changes. 

Reviewer 3: The last sentence of this paragraph is sort of restating what the last sentence in the previous paragraph said, so you could probably get rid of one of them?

> ## Data plane management during control plane outage

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Data plane management during a control plane outage
```

> A new data plane node that is added to the cluster when the control plane is unreachable exhibits the following behaviour:  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A new data plane node added to the cluster when the control plane is unreachable exhibits the following behavior:  
```

> If the data plane and control plane are both configured to `export` a configuration, assuming that they are both configured with the right level of authentication, the data plane will export the configuration to the bucket.

Reviewer: By "latter writes win" I mean "later writes win". Sorry for my misleading comment. It's possible that DP writes to the stroage faster than the CP, and the CP overwrite the config. Anyway, we could just tell the user to not configure it this way.

> * The new data plane node determines that the control plane is unreachable. 
> * The new data plane node reads the configuration file from the S3 compatible storage volume, configures itself, caches the fetched configuration file, and begins proxying requests.
> * The new data plane node continuously tries to establish a connection with the control plane. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. The new data plane node determines that the control plane is unreachable. 
1. The new data plane node reads the configuration file from the S3 compatible storage volume, configures itself, caches the fetched configuration file, and begins proxying requests.
1. The new data plane node continuously tries to establish a connection with the control plane. 
```
Since I think these bullets happen in order, I thought you might be able to do them as an ordered list

> The S3 compatible storage volume is only accessed at data plane node creation time. The configuration will never be pulled from the storage after creation. If the new data plane node depends on any other functionality from the control plane, it will fail. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The S3 compatible storage volume is only accessed when the data plane node is created. The configuration will never be pulled from the storage after creation. If the new data plane node depends on any other functionality from the control plane, it will fail. 
```
For the last "it" would that be the dp or the cp?

Author: dp

> {:.note}

Reviewer 3: Maybe this should be the "important" format instead of a note, since we're telling people to avoid a certain configuration.

> > If the data plane and control plane are both configured to `export` a configuration, assuming that they are both configured with the right level of authentication, the data plane will write to the storage volume first, and then the control plane will overwrite the configuration. You should avoid this configuration.

Reviewer 3: Is there any circumstance where we would recommend this configuration? I just wasn't sure who should avoid it. If we don't recommend this to anyone, this could maybe be rephrased like "Don't configure the data plane and control plane to `export` a configuration. This results in...."

This might be good to call out on the "Configure" page as well where we tell people what to configure.

## Security considerations

Storage volume write access is only granted to the backup node.
It is your responsibility to apply any encryption modules your storage provider recommends to encrypt the configuration in the storage volume. 

> ## Who should use this mode?

Reviewer 3: Maybe bump this section up above "Security considerations"?
